doc/user/content/installation/operational-guidelines.md, before:

---
title: "Operational guidelines"
description: ""
aliases:
  - /self-hosted/operational-guidelines/
menu:
  main:
    parent: "installation"
    weight: 80
    identifier: "sm-operational-guidelines"
---

## Recommended instance types

- ARM-based CPU
- 1:8 ratio of vCPU to GiB memory (if spill-to-disk is not enabled)
- 1:16 ratio of vCPU to GiB local instance storage (if spill-to-disk is enabled)

See also the specific cloud provider guidance:

- [AWS Deployment
  guidelines](/installation/install-on-aws/appendix-deployment-guidelines/#recommended-instance-types)

- [GCP Deployment
  guidelines](/installation/install-on-gcp/appendix-deployment-guidelines/#recommended-instance-types)

- [Azure Deployment
  guidelines](/installation/install-on-azure/appendix-deployment-guidelines/#recommended-instance-types)

## CPU affinity

It is strongly recommended to enable the Kubernetes `static` [CPU management policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cpu-management-policies/#static-policy).
This ensures that each worker thread of Materialize is given exclusively access to a vCPU. Our benchmarks have shown this
to substantially improve the performance of compute-bound workloads.

## TLS

When running with TLS in production, run with certificates from an official
Certificate Authority (CA) rather than self-signed certificates.

## Locally-attached NVMe storage

For optimal performance, Materialize requires fast, locally-attached NVMe
storage. Having a locally-attached storage allows Materialize to spill to disk
when operating on datasets larger than main memory as well as allows for a more
graceful degradation rather than OOMing. Network-attached storage (like EBS
volumes) can significantly degrade performance and is not supported.

Refer to the specific cloud provider guidelines:

- [AWS Deployment
  guidelines](/installation/install-on-aws/appendix-deployment-guidelines/)

- [GCP Deployment
  guidelines](/installation/install-on-gcp/appendix-deployment-guidelines/)

- [Azure Deployment
  guidelines](/installation/install-on-azure/appendix-deployment-guidelines/)

## See also

- [Configuration](/installation/configuration/)
- [Installation](/installation/)
- [Troubleshooting](/installation/troubleshooting/)

Commit message:

docs: Relabel GCP guides as legacy Terraform guides
- Moves the install, upgrade, and configuration docs into a subdirectory called Terraform Provider (Legacy)
- Creates aliases for each of the moved pages
- `Installation > Install on GCP `-> `Installation > Install on GCP > Terraform Provider (Legacy) > Install`
- Removed terraform references from the Deployment guideline appendix and pushed them into the Configuration appendix
- Changed from "Required configuration" to just "configuration"

docs: Relabel AWS guides as legacy Terraform guides

- Does the same work as the GCP commit

docs: Relabel Azure guides as legacy Terraform guides

- Does the same thing as the GCP commit
- Removes terraform configuation values given they weren't rendered. e.g. enable_disk_support

Update doc links

Add docs for new terraform modules.

doc/user/content/installation/operational-guidelines.md, after:

---
title: "Operational guidelines"
description: ""
aliases:
  - /self-hosted/operational-guidelines/
menu:
  main:
    parent: "installation"
    weight: 80
    identifier: "sm-operational-guidelines"
---

## Recommended instance types

As a general guideline, we recommend:

- ARM-based CPU
- A 1:8 ratio of vCPU to GiB memory
- For swap clusters, use a 1:16 ratio of vCPU to GiB local instance storage

See also the specific cloud provider guidance:

- [AWS Deployment
  guidelines](/installation/install-on-aws/appendix-deployment-guidelines/#recommended-instance-types)

- [GCP Deployment
  guidelines](/installation/install-on-gcp/appendix-deployment-guidelines/#recommended-instance-types)

- [Azure Deployment
  guidelines](/installation/install-on-azure/appendix-deployment-guidelines/#recommended-instance-types)

## TLS

When running with TLS in production, run with certificates from an official
Certificate Authority (CA) rather than self-signed certificates.

## Locally-attached NVMe storage

Configuring swap on nodes to using locally-attached NVMe storage allows
Materialize to spill to disk when operating on datasets larger than main memory.
This setup can provide significant cost savings and provides a more graceful
degradation rather than OOMing. Network-attached storage (like EBS volumes) can
significantly degrade performance and is not supported.

Refer to the specific cloud provider guidelines:

- [AWS Deployment
  guidelines](/installation/install-on-aws/appendix-deployment-guidelines/)

- [GCP Deployment
  guidelines](/installation/install-on-gcp/appendix-deployment-guidelines/)

- [Azure Deployment
  guidelines](/installation/install-on-azure/appendix-deployment-guidelines/)

## See also

- [Configuration](/installation/configuration/)
- [Installation](/installation/)
- [Troubleshooting](/installation/troubleshooting/)
