doc/user/content/installation/install-on-aws/appendix-deployment-guidelines.md, before:

---
title: "Appendix: AWS deployment guidelines"
description: "AWS environment setup/deployment guidelines"
aliases:
  - /self-hosted/operational-guidelines/
menu:
  main:
    parent: "install-on-aws"
    identifier: "aws-deployment-guidelines"
    weight: 40
---

## Recommended instance types

As a general guideline, we recommend:

- Processor Type: ARM-based CPU

- Sizing:

  - If spill-to-disk is not enabled: 1:8 ratio of vCPU to GiB memory

  - If spill-to-disk is enabled (*Recommended*): 1:16 ratio of vCPU to GiB local
    instance storage

{{% self-managed/aws-recommended-instances %}}

## Locally-attached NVMe storage

For optimal performance, Materialize requires fast, locally-attached NVMe
storage. Having a locally-attached storage allows Materialize to spill to disk
when operating on datasets larger than main memory as well as allows for a more
graceful degradation rather than OOMing. Network-attached storage (like EBS
volumes) can significantly degrade performance and is not supported.

### Swap support

Starting in v0.6.1 of Materialize on AWS Terraform,
disk support (using swap on NVMe instance storage) may be enabled for
Materialize. With this change, the Terraform:

- Creates a node group for Materialize.
- Configures NVMe instance store volumes as swap using a daemonset.
- Enables swap at the Kubelet.

For swap support, the following configuration option is available:

- [`swap_enabled`](https://github.com/MaterializeInc/terraform-aws-materialize?tab=readme-ov-file#input_swap_enabled)

See [Upgrade Notes](https://github.com/MaterializeInc/terraform-aws-materialize?tab=readme-ov-file#v061).


## CPU affinity

It is strongly recommended to enable the Kubernetes `static` [CPU management policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cpu-management-policies/#static-policy).
This ensures that each worker thread of Materialize is given exclusively access to a vCPU. Our benchmarks have shown this
to substantially improve the performance of compute-bound workloads.

## TLS

When running with TLS in production, run with certificates from an official
Certificate Authority (CA) rather than self-signed certificates.

## See also

- [Configuration](/installation/configuration/)
- [Installation](/installation/)
- [Troubleshooting](/installation/troubleshooting/)

Commit message:

docs: Relabel GCP guides as legacy Terraform guides
- Moves the install, upgrade, and configuration docs into a subdirectory called Terraform Provider (Legacy)
- Creates aliases for each of the moved pages
- `Installation > Install on GCP `-> `Installation > Install on GCP > Terraform Provider (Legacy) > Install`
- Removed terraform references from the Deployment guideline appendix and pushed them into the Configuration appendix
- Changed from "Required configuration" to just "configuration"

docs: Relabel AWS guides as legacy Terraform guides

- Does the same work as the GCP commit

docs: Relabel Azure guides as legacy Terraform guides

- Does the same thing as the GCP commit
- Removes terraform configuation values given they weren't rendered. e.g. enable_disk_support

Update doc links

Add docs for new terraform modules.

doc/user/content/installation/install-on-aws/appendix-deployment-guidelines.md, after:

---
title: "Appendix: AWS deployment guidelines"
description: "AWS environment setup/deployment guidelines"
aliases:
  - /self-hosted/operational-guidelines/
menu:
  main:
    parent: "install-on-aws"
    identifier: "aws-deployment-guidelines"
    weight: 40
---

## Recommended instance types

As a general guideline, we recommend:

- ARM-based CPU
- A 1:8 ratio of vCPU to GiB memory
- For swap clusters, use a 8:1 ratio of GiB local instance storage to GiB memory

{{% self-managed/aws-recommended-instances %}}

## Locally-attached NVMe storage

Configuring swap on nodes to use locally-attached NVMe storage allows
Materialize to spill to disk when operating on datasets larger than main memory.
This setup can provide significant cost savings and provides a more graceful
degradation rather than OOMing. Network-attached storage (like EBS volumes) can
significantly degrade performance and is not supported.

### Swap support

***New Unified Terraform***

The unified Materialize [Terraform module](https://github.com/MaterializeInc/materialize-terraform-self-managed/tree/main/aws/examples/simple) supports configuring swap out of the box.

***Legacy Terraform***

The Legacy Terraform provider, adds preliminary swap support in v0.6.1, via the [`swap_enabled`](https://github.com/MaterializeInc/terraform-aws-materialize?tab=readme-ov-file#input_swap_enabled) variable.
With this change, the Terraform:
  - Creates a node group for Materialize.
  - Configures NVMe instance store volumes as swap using a daemonset.
  - Enables swap at the Kubelet.

See [Upgrade Notes](https://github.com/MaterializeInc/terraform-aws-materialize?tab=readme-ov-file#v061).

{{< note >}}
If deploying `v25.2` Materialize clusters will not automatically use swap unless they are configured with a `memory_request` less than their `memory_limit`. In `v26` this will be handled automatically.
{{< /note >}}

## TLS

When running with TLS in production, run with certificates from an official
Certificate Authority (CA) rather than self-signed certificates.

## See also

- [Configuration](/installation/configuration/)
- [Installation](/installation/)
- [Troubleshooting](/installation/troubleshooting/)
